# Disaster-Decision-Support
An Earthquake Advisory System helping disaster victims.
Earthquake is the trembling or shaking movement of the surface of earth caused due to the movement of the tectonic plates present in the Earth’s crust. Buildings can be damaged by the shaking itself or by the ground beneath them settling to a different level than it was before the earthquake. They can even sink into the ground if soil liquefaction occurs. If a structure (a building, road, etc.) is built across a fault, the ground displacement during an earthquake could seriously damage or rip apart that structure. An earthquake can rupture dams or levees along a river. The water from the river or the reservoir would then flood the area, damaging buildings and maybe sweeping away or drowning people. Tsunamis and seiches can also cause a great deal of damage fires can be started by broken gas lines and power lines, or tipped over wood or coal stoves. Most of the hazards to people come from man-made structures themselves and the shaking they receive from the earthquake. The real dangers to people are being crushed in a collapsing building, drowning in a flood caused by a broken dam or levee, getting buried under a landslide, or being burned in a fire. The damages caused by these hazards can be controlled by taking some timely actions, therefore the project ‘An Earthquake Advisory system’ plays a vital role in suggesting and advising the actions that can be taken during an Earthquake. India falls quite prominently on the global seismic belt which runs in an east-west direction and is called the Alpine- Himalayan belt. The system would be effective to mitigate the damage & losses to life and property.

It takes into account the past Earthquake data and analyses the resources that were provided or needed at that time , tries to find the most similar case, if any keeping in mind all the necessary details and the geographic location. Then the system would provide with the list of actions like number of ambulance, helicopters, emergency contact numbers, material aids that might be required and much more. It would also send an Email along with SMS to the required authorities and personals comprising of details of the Earthquake and few actions that can be taken at that very moment.

The coding has been done in java and the project provides a virtual interface for the clients wherein they can select what kind of emergency situation they prfer.
It also has as automatic pop-up whenever an Earthquake occurs , for the measurement and detection of Earthquake Rasberry pi has been used which is activated 24x7.
For the Database- Ontology and postgre has been used , all of them implemented in java.
